hey everyone welcome to a quick
introduction to message brokers
this is gonna be first in a multi-video
series where we just look at message
brokers
messaging uh what it's good for what
it's used for uh i give some pointers
and some code demos to show you how you
can
kind of build message driven systems
so to dive in i just figured we would
take a look at the wikipedia definition
of message brokers
uh it's pretty detailed talks about a
lot of different concepts
uh talked about being an architectural
pattern something that mediates
communication
uh decouples endpoints uh provides
message queues for multiple receivers
does reliable storage guaranteed
messaging perhaps even transaction
management right so it seems to be a lot
of different concepts pretty complicated
and so we're just going to dive in kind
of slow and simple and
understand basically how they work so
the problem we're looking to solve
is getting two computers to communicate
so imagine we've got application one
running on one machine
application two running on another
machine and we need them to communicate
somehow application one wants to send
some information in some form
to application two and so the default
approach we would typically take
to this is trying to open a network
connection have application one
uh access uh application two through
some kind of ip address and port
combination
open a tcp connection maybe and then
just push the data through
but it can actually be a little bit more
challenging than that when we get into
kind of more discrete systems
application 2 may not be running so that
might be our number one obstacle is that
it's actually not there to connect to
uh but also it might be running slow or
its network might be slow so it might
not be able to push data through as fast
as we would
uh want from from application one's
perspective uh there might be a network
firewall in between so there may not
actually be a network path between
application one and application two that
we can connect through directly
um and the other challenge is they may
not speak the same language right so if
these are both our applications we've
written both of them but they're
probably going to speak the same
language
but if these are you know if you've got
different teams different people
different companies building different
applications
uh they may end up actually not speaking
the same language entirely
and so uh message brokers
can serve as an intermediary for us they
can sit in the middle between
application one application two
and solve some of these challenges for
us
so now application one can send the
information to the message broker
and then that message broker can receive
it and forward it on to application two
and so at first challenge that we had if
application two is not running
uh the good news is message brokers will
have some form of storage
uh so application one can send that
information as a message to the message
broker
that message broker will store that up
and then when application two comes back
to life
the message broker's able to forward on
those messages
to application 2 and this can give us
some good reliability in our
communication
so even if application 2 is unavailable
we're able application 1 is still able
to kind of communicate with it
if the network is slow if the
application's slow potentially again
that storage and the message broker is
going to come in use here
so application 2 being slow is similar
to it being down
that message broker can store those
messages that it's received but it can't
yet send out
and when application 2 is ready to
receive them uh it's able to send them
on so application one can
push missions out real fast the message
breaker will store them up and forward
them on at a slower rate
uh as fast as application 2 can actually
receive them
the other challenge we had about their
firewalls being in between
and so the measure brokers can help us
solve this challenge too so
we can put our message broker somewhere
where it's accessible by
both of these applications we could put
it maybe on the internet give it some
kind of domain name or an ip address
maybe even a public one that
we can access from anywhere and that
means all the applications that want to
share information
can connect out of their networks which
is typically allowed through firewalls
and out of their networks to the message
broker and open up those kind of tcp or
those those network channels
and then once apple once an application
wants to share information
it can connect to the broker it can then
share it to any application that's also
connected to the broker
so here message one can send a message
out through its firewall and we can see
the arrow for application two now it's
connected the other way they're both
getting it out into the broker
but that message is able to still flow
through those two network connections
and the final challenge you talked about
was what if they don't speak the same
language
message brokers often can can translate
between different communication
protocols
uh some intelligent ones can translate
the contents of the message
and we'll talk about that kind of
further down the series but for the
protocol
at least it's pretty common that message
brokers can translate between
multiple different protocols there are
actually some protocols specifically for
messaging
amqp the asynchronous message crew
protocol is a good one
mqtt and stomp there are some
proprietary ones like kafka
protocol as well a lot of mesh brokers
can communicate between
different ones of those some will even
speak http and other kind of non-message
specific protocols
to enable kind of all different kinds of
applications to talk so here we see
application one sending something into
http
the mesh broker translates that and
sends it down as amqp to application two
which can respond in amqp
and then the message broker can
translate that back to an http
uh kind of call and pass that
information back to application one
and so in order to make good use of a
broker for us to understand and model
the communication that happens
we want to have a good kind of model for
what actually happens and so the basic
kind of communication structure that we
use when we use message queues
uh or when we use message brokers sorry
is a message queue
um and queue like when you're in a
grocery store like when you're doing
programming with cues
they are a first in first out concept
and so if i send message one
into a queue and then send message two
to a queue it should deliver message one
before it delivers message queue so the
first one in will be the first one out
i like to think of these in a real world
energy as a single lane road so the
first car that comes into our road
uh is at the front of the line
effectively there's no overtaking or
anything so all the cars kind of queue
up
one after the other and then as we allow
things out they get they leave that road
in the same order they
they entered it
but in order for british brokers to be
super useful for different applications
uh we don't just have one queue message
brokers typically have multiple cues any
number of queues
and so we can give our different queues
their own unique names
and their different applications can
send messages to different cues
and then we can have other receiving
applications receive different messages
from the different queues
so here we've got two cues in our
message broker q1 and q2
and then an application different
application sending into them and
different applications receiving them
which is also very useful
uh but another really useful feature
about queues is they aren't just
one-to-one we don't have to have one
sending application
sending data into a queue and then one
application receiving it
we'd have multiple people sending into a
queue and those messages just get added
to the queue in the order they arrived
in
right same as that one main road they
just queue up in that order
and then the different receiving
applications uh are typically referred
to when we when we're using measurements
we refer to them as competing consumers
they receive the next available message
from the queue when they ask for a
message
so the first application that will uh
request a message from the cube we'll
get the very first one that was sent to
it
uh that'll come off their queue and go
to that application and then the next
one will get the one that was behind
that the second message effectively and
they'll keep kind of
taking the next one from the queue the
important kind of guarantee here that
the message broker provides is
they won't get given the same message so
we can actually if we want to like scale
out our applications that are processing
messages
we can just keep running more instances
of them and they can keep connecting to
the cube and taking the next
message from it and we know that they
won't get duplicate one so we won't do
duplicate work or
take duplicate actions because of it so
this is a really important concept when
we get further down into
the patterns that make message driven
systems work uh
work but for now this is just a basic
understanding about the way competing
consumers work and how
how different numbers of people can turn
to a queue and receive from a queue at
the same time
the next logical thing to talk about
after message queues
would be topics and subscriptions these
are a really important concept when we
build distributed systems using message
brokers
they are like cues in the fact that
they're queuing up messages that get
sent by one application before they get
delivered to another one
but they're also a little bit different
they're also different between different
message brokers so message queues all
generally work the same on all the
brokers
when we get to topics and subscriptions
different message brokers can have
slightly different implementations
especially when we get to different
types of message broker
it's like the more traditional ones like
azure service bus
or active mq or rabbitmq and then these
kind of newer distributed log type ones
like kafka and
azure event hubs um they're very
different those are the last two
in in how they work and so we're going
to talk a little bit more about topics
and subscriptions
in our next video so that's all for this
quick introduction
to message brokers we basically
discovered what a message broker does
how it sits in between two
applications that want to communicate
and then they can send information in
the form of
short messages it can kind of cue them
up for them
and deliver them it can cure them up uh
in
separate queues deliver them to
different applications and we can have
all these different name cues on our
message broker
uh so if you like this video if you
found it useful hit like uh hit
subscribe so you can see
uh the rest of the videos in this series
and also hit post notifications because
i will be posting more videos
and if you want to see me on social
media there are my two handles there
so thanks so much for tuning in and i'll
see you in the next video